The Joe Rogan experience.
I wanna talk to you about this, this, when you're talking about authenticity,
I wanna talk to you about, have you ever seen the movie IOUs?
I have dabbled I'm honestly,
I don't wanna watch it entirely because I would be so angry afterwards.
It's crazy because I've lost to Russians and some of the biggest
matches of my career.
And I know if I saw that I would be so off because
they have changed my life in terms of being Olympic champion,
being a multiple winning more world titles, more golds,
they've taken money out my pocket, notoriety and fame away from me.
And it has, it'll really upset me. So that's why I've decided not to. It's a.
Good thing to watch, just to understand the sophistication, just to be upset.
Let, let me explain to people that don't know what we're talking about it. Uh,
Iris is a documentary by Brian Fogal and Brian was, uh, a cyclist.
And what he did was he decided to race and it was for, for the documentary.
He did a race, completely natural recorded his results.
And then he hired this Russian gentleman who was a part of the Russian,
supposedly their anti-doping association, which meant got the anti. Okay.
Well he, eventually as time went on, it got exposed.
He just completely lucked into this,
this situation where he hired this guy to tell him, what should I do?
His name was Gregory Chenko Chenko thank you, Jamie. Good man. Jamie, um,
he is a man, um,
and Gregory told him exactly what he should take
and when he should it and do this and do that, and this is how,
and then he was gonna do the same race again the following year,
but juiced up and see what the difference in performance was along the way
the Sochi Olympics gets exposed that the Russians had cheated.
And what they had done was it was a super sophisticated scandal where they cut a
hole in the wall and they were like transferring the,
the dirty through one hole and, and giving 'em the, the clean sample to replace.
So they had found that there was microscopic scratches and these supposedly
impossible to open bottles. Yeah.
So the Russians had figured out a way to open theses to reopen those.
Things. And it, have you seen the real ones?
Have you ever seen one of the real bottles? No, I haven't in the flesh.
You cannot open them. Yeah, you can.
You will break them if you open them impossible.
They like have this sophisticated system in there where it's locked into the
interlocks with the glass. So once you close it as tightly as possible,
you cannot reopen it.
Well, they somehow, or another figure to work around,
to get in there and open it. And when they did that,
they achieved an press that did number of gold medals. I mean, they just,
they dominated the Sochi Olympics in Russia.
I'm, bro.
I'm hot because I'm hot and you, we know it.
Like we know it pull up the, I don't even want to get into this.
Please get into it. So pull up the,
I lost in the quarter finals of the Olympic games in 2016,
there's a guy named Anne. We good.
Doya I just want you to see a picture of this guy. You tell me, was this in Rio?
He clean, this was in Rio, in Rio.
Weren't a lot of the Russians of they were kicked out of Rio because of.
Sochi. They, so they did, uh, the most Russian,
the most failed test by Russia and all Olympic sports.
First was track and field. Second was weightlifting. Third was wrestling.
Wrestling was number three out of all Olympic sports,
however many programs there are. I'm sure there are a ton of sports.
You've talked about it. Wrestling was third.
They prod date,
all these samples. So they're getting popping guys from oh eight,
2012. And they're saying, you know what?
This guy was on a substance. He was on, you know,
some sort of performance enhancing drugs. So we're going to,
to strip of him, him of his medal.
And we're gonna give the guy that took fifth place, the bronze medal instead.
But at that point it's such a different experience.
You never got to stand on the podium.
You never got to travel the world and tell everyone about your medal.
You never got to get that check that was associated with whatever success that
you had. That's sponsor someone taking.
Away someone's gold medal.
And then giving it to you is not the same. It's not the same. It's not the same.
So it's,
it's life changing experience that you miss out on because these guys are being
unhealthy and just straight up cheater. So like
I let I, there's a certain amount of disdain that I have for Russia.
I respect them cuz they are tremendous wrestlers. Not everyone cheats,
not everyone cheats,
but there are those who do and it's well known in the wrestling community.
And so at this point we have had to just accept
it and try to beat 'em you just like,
you just gotta beat 'em because it doesn't matter that they are so powerful.
That IOC is powerful.
That regardless of what they do,
Thomas Bach and the IOC will never make a stance in which they will
completely ban Russia. So they've banned Russia from the Olympic games,
but the athletes that test cleanly can still compete under a different flag.
So ultimately it'd be like the independent Republic of Russia
that they can still compete in.
But the Russian flag will not be visible in Tokyo or in
Paris in 2024. Really?
You cannot compete under the Russian national flag really done.
Wow. I didn't know that. So it's, they've been banned from the Olympic games.
They're governing body Russia itself.
So all Russian athletes will have to go through a testing process and then they
will be able to compete on as independent athletes, um, under a different flag,
but not the Russian flag. That's and that's how far we've come, bro.
And like I've seen so many athletes in track and field and weightlifting and
wrestling that have seen other athletes get stripped and then have been given
their medals years later. And all they get is an Instagram post. Yeah. It's not.
Bro. Like you didn't.
Get a chance to win. It's not cool. It's not the same. And it's,
it's sad because it, it, it it's the butterfly effect. Right.
Because messes up the, the, the ripple of the entire bracket, right?
So it's like you beat this guy and then all he loses here and this guy goes here
and this guy retires, or he changes weight classes.
Like there's just so many things that just happen because of this.
So it doesn't make me happy. It doesn't sit well with me. But at this point,
like what do you do? Like, I mean, you blow the whistle enough times,
but you just gotta do what you can to, to avoid it.
And that the only way to do it is beat 'em. I think in wrestling,
we have kind of like the biggest margin of error because just because someone's
in great shape, doesn't mean you can't beat 'em in wrestling.
There's so much precision and technical skill that's associated with it that you
can still overcome that steep hill.
But that's a problem with the Russians as well, because very proficient.
They're.
Freaking they're very good. They're freaking good. So technical, the,
the wrestlers in these, you know, provinces and caucuses are insane,
insane at the sport. Like they from birth,
they are competing and training at the highest level. It's unlike re like here,
you got youth sport and you play games and you know what I mean?
You play tag with your buddies at practice and you do a couple of rope climbs.
You're done. Like these guys are training like Olympians at eight years old,
they're doing Brack bridge, kick overs, and they're learning five point throws.
And they're just technically savvy at a much earlier age because they're
bred for this. We think we have it hard here.
Like poverty here is nothing like poverty in other countries, especially,
you know, on like Ceia or Chenia and all these places like it's,
it's just a different vibe there. So they, they have some amazing.
Wrestlers, an amazing motivation too, with that poverty.
Oh, it's life changing. They're tied into the government.
The us is the only country that their Olympic team is not government
funded,
only country in the world where really our Olympic team is funded privately
by donations, corporate sponsors, that's it,
we're only country in the entire world. Every,
every country and the world has the government funding,
the way that they operate in making sure that they are competing at a high
level. That's.
Gotta be an incredible disgrace for Russia to be eliminated from the 20,
20 and 2024 Olympics. Yeah.
Well, when you stand on top of the podium, bro,
there's a certain amount of pride that comes with seeing your flag raised above
all else. That is a special moment. And so for them,
I don't know, because is it pride or is it, is it financial?
Is it just be an Olympic champion? Let.
Me ask you this. What if a guy wins in 2008? Okay. And, and,
and pops like they, they retroactively test the samples. Yeah. And then he, he,
is he still capable of competing in the future or is he eliminated forever?
Well.
<Laugh> that, it depends. I mean, if, if you pop from a few years ago,
then maybe, I don't know, maybe they prod date, your suspension and say, okay,
every let's say, if you got suspended on that day for two years, post that day,
all of your results in that period of time would probably be eliminated.
But I don't think they.
They would say that argument,
but I've also heard the argument that if you're cheating,
you should be eliminated for life for life.
And that that's the only way to stop cheaters. Is that like,
if you wanna stop someone from doing something it's prestigious as the Olympic
gold medal, that's a death sentence. I don't know games.
I know it's death sentence, but I mean, you, you are, you're cheating. Yeah.
You're repeating.
It's a thing like the whole reason to win the Olympics is for glory and for the
opportunity for sponsorships, for Americans. And, but that's why.
That's why they're doing it, man. Like.
Well, it's political glory. And when Russia had it in the Sochi Olympics,
that it's not like coincidence, they're.
Following that medal closely, bro.
Don't let anybody fool you that count every year at every Olympic games is
something that us in the village as athletes and the presidents of each
particular respective country, they're following that. Of course they wanna win.
They wanna be the best. Of course, that's, that's big to them.
So above all else,
some people are willing to take some crazy answers to be successful
because they know the incentives that will follow them,
getting their hand raised. But yeah, you know,
some people operate with character and they're like, you know what? Win or lose.
I'm not doing these things. I.
Think though, with Russia, and this was pretty clear because of this doctor,
they don't have a choice. They don't have a choice. Yeah.
They don't have a choice. What was this wrestler that you wanted to say?
What was the video?
It was, uh, an wire Gado. Just pull up a photo. There's like a very,
there's a photo of him. He's like super vast. How corre.
I mean, Carren's one of the craziest examples ever.
His parents were tiny little folks. They were like five, five.
And he was built like a human Panther. That guy, that's a big fellow.
That's a guy that's achievable naturally with superior genetics. I mean,
it is possible superior.
But if you look at any other,
look at all the other Russians that I've wrestled over the last,
over the last decade, none of them have that,
that level of stature. But it's, it is whatever, man. That's like,
we've exchanged matches. He's beaten me. I've beaten him. Um, but he beat,
he beat me when it counted at the Olympic games.
And so he does look pretty stacked. He's uh, he's tough, man. He's a stud.
And this was in Rio. This was in.
Rio. Um, this was, is a, a game changer.
So, and you are suspicious.
I'm a little, yeah. Yeah. I am. I'm gonna be honest.
I'm I'm a little suspicious. I probably get a lot of heat for it.
And Russians probably won't be how happy with it. But even.
If he didn't test positive,
then the odds of him using steroids up before then or
using some sort of performing. Yeah.
Whether it's EPO for training to get to where he got to like physically.
Yeah. You know, you keep a lot of the gains, no.
Matter what that's the, the hard part about it is within that space.
If you don't have a choice fine. Right. You know, Joe, listen,
if you wanna be on a podcast, you have to right.
Do this. Right. If the government tells you, Hey,
you want to compete for the Russian team, you have to take.
This or you can go be a Russian worker for the rest of your life making minimum
wage. You're like, eh, I'll take that podcast. Give me that. Right.
So I think it's, it's a very different vibe there.
Like they don't have opportunity outside. Like they can't go to university.
They don't go to school. Russian wrestlers, don't go to college.
They don't go to universities and get four year degrees and get masters and go
on to the corporate world. They don't do that.
It's either you are an Olympic champion or they will choose a job for you.
And it's probably not one that's super enticing or you will work in some sort of
organized, you know, syndicate. Yeah. It's just different.
Catch new episodes. The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J R E video videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.